Hi.
And welcome to this video.
We're going to continue our look at complex numbers so the complex numbers are to find in Python using
the complex class so that's the data type.
And you can always look at help on the complex class that's built in.
We don't have to import anything in this case unlike the decimals for example.
And so we have the constructor.
So the constructor just takes the real and imaginary parts.
So in other words complex numbers by default use rectangular coordinates so we can say maybe one comma
two and then we can also use a literal way of creating complex numbers which is one the real parents
plus two and then we use the letter J for the imaginary part and J can be either lowercase or uppercase.
It doesn't matter how this is lowercase here.
And of course we can compare those two numbers.
They should be the same and we get true.
Now we'll come back to the equals equals because it's true in this case but it's not always true in
general and we'll see why when we look at how to retrieve the real and imaginary parts of a complex
number.
So let's look at a or b and let's see how we would return the real part of a we'll just say a dog really.
So it's an instance property at the same time.
Let's take a look at what the type is of K-Dub real.
And as you can see we get one point.
Back and it's a float.
Now we did define one as an integer.
But complex numbers have the real and imaginary parts.
Still all these floats.
So we're going to have the same approximation problems that we saw with floats with complex numbers.
Except now we'll have it in both the real and imaginary parts so we'll circle back to that.
Let's first look at how we would get to the imaginary part of a number of a complex number and we can
look at the type as well just to make sure.
But as you can see we get 2.0 and there's also a float.
So we'll have to be careful there.
We also have the instance property called conjugate which gives us the complex conjugate of the number
so we can look at a conjugate a method not a property and it returns one minus to J which is the complex
conjugate of one plus two.
Now we also have these standard arithmetic operators that we can use so plus minus division and so on.
Works as one would expect with complex numbers.
So let's say we have a equals 1 plus 2 J.
And let's say we say B equals I'll make a different ten class let's say 8 j k.
And now we can print a plus b get 11 plus 10 J we can do a times b etc..
A divided by B and so on.
So we have all these possibilities the standard arithmetic operators.
We could also have powers so we can say A-squared for example which will give us minus three possible
J.
And so on.
So the standard arithmetic operators work just as expected.
Now the ones that don't work are the Durban mud operators they are not defined for complex numbers.
So if I try and say a Div 2 we get this error here it can take the floor of a complex number.
What does that have to do with the Do we all remember when we looked at how the operator was defined.
For floats it was a floor division.
And essentially that's what's happened here.
So that doesn't work.
And of course neither will model that doesn't work either.
So we can't model complex numbers.
And of course the model function isn't going to work either since well we can't have Duvel model.
They're not implemented and neither will be the month function as well.
OK so let's take a look back very quickly now at the equals equals which is supported as well as the
not equals.
So that support for complex numbers.
But we have the same caveats that we have with floats.
So as an example let's say 8 is equal to zero point 1 g.
Okay.
So let's define that I'm not going to define a real part a.
So the real pop will be zero.
Let's just focus on 0.1.
It's a complex number.
And let's take a look at play.
Well let's go ahead and formats.
They got real not imaginary in this case.
Okay.
And let's go out to 25 digits after the decimal point.
And as you can see we do not have exactly zero point one gets this binary flow representation issue
that we've discussed before.
So we can do the same thing here.
We can look at a big plus a big plus a.
Now that should be equal to 0.3.
So we might want to test and say is that equal to 0.3.
And the response to that would be false.
Right.
And that's because if we would have format that format each one of those.
So let's say a plus a plus a I'm going to take the imaginary part of that and then we're going to look
at.
So that's the value.
And then we're going to format and we're going to take 0.3 Jake dot imaginary also adds 25 digits after
the decimal point.
And as you can see they're not exactly equal to each other.
Right.
We have this finite binary approximation.
So that's why that equals equals doesn't work.
So we'll circle back to that and see how to fix it.
But essentially it's going to be the same way that we fixed it in flows.
The same approach that we took in floats using you know a measure of how close to numbers are to each
other to define whether we consider them equal or not.
So we'll come back to that.
So the next thing that I want to look at is the math library.
Now the when you're dealing with floats you have the math library right so we can import math right.
That's standard math library.
We can say math stuff square root of two gives us that we have math dot PI right which returns pi to
the number of calls finite representation of Pi.
Now the CMF library is very similar except it's defined for complex numbers.
So C math has me all.
Most of the functions that you find in the math library like square root and exponents and signs you
know all the trig functions the hyperbolic functions all those are in there as well as the r functions.
So let's take a look at some of those.
Let's start with Pi is also built in to the C math library and it gives us that.
And let's look at the.
Type is that may be a complex number.
Does the PI that comes from the complex module give us a complex number and the answer is no.
Essentially the PI that we have in the math model and the PI that we have in the math module all the
same thing.
It's there as a convenience so that if you're working with complex numbers you don't have to import
the math library the math model just to get Pi right because the functions that you have in the math
module will not walk on complex numbers.
So if we have let's say 8 equals one plus 2 Jake right.
If we try and do math or square root of a while that doesn't work right.
It can't convert a complex to a float complex has these two paths right.
It's more like a vector if you talking about rectangular coordinates than a single number.
So you can't do that.
You have to use the C math square root which will then give you the complex square and same thing with
the other you know functions that are available in the math library.
They're specifically made for complex numbers.
So you can't use the math library in general for that OK.
So in the math library some other functions that might be of interest is how to convert from rectangular
to polar coordinates.
So by default complex numbers are stored as rectangular coordinates using floats for the real imaginary
girls but very often we want to work with our polar coordinates with complex numbers so we can take
a complex number and rectangular and get the angle the phase of the arm the argument of the complex
number using the C math goft phase method.
So let's take one but we might actually know the phase.
Let's say we take a complex number equal to one plus one j.
Right.
So we know that this is a complex number which is at a 45 degree angle to the real axis and it should
have a length on our value of a square root of 2.
Just the Euclidean distance.
So if we say see math DOPs phase of a.
It gives us this value here.
And in fact if we say see math that pi divided by 4 we'll see that that's approximately the same thing.
So that's how we get the angle when we go from rectangular to polar.
How do we get the Euclidean distance.
Well it's just the absolute method and it's absolute function.
It's not in the math or the math library we're not using the C math float absolutely f abs.
It's just a plain absolute method which is just built into Python.
And it will work with complex numbers.
It's polymorphic and it will handle complex numbers correctly to just pass that in and you essentially
get the Euclid genome you'll get the eight that are value which is 1.4 1 full which is what we expected.
Square root of 2.
So that's how you can go from rectangular to polar.
Now how do we go from polar to rectangular.
Well we have that in the C math module.
There is a function called recked and that takes two parameters it takes the air and the thought the
Phi.
So it takes the value.
Let's say we're going to take one.
Well I'm going to do this.
I'm going to say take math.
The square root of two.
I'm going to try and get as close as I can get.
And then for the angle I want a pile over four.
So I'm going to say math dot PI divided by four and let's see what we get.
Well we get one plus one J.
Now it's not exactly one plus one J.
You know again I mean it's possible square root of two is not going to have a finite representation.
Not even in decimal.
And same thing with pi pi doesn't have a finite representation and therefore neither does why.
But we're close enough.
We can see we're very close to one plus one Jake.
So that's how you can convert from poler to rectangular coordinates using the correct function in the
C math monu.
All right.
Lastly I want to talk about Euler's Identity.
And we again discussed that in the slides.
So let's go ahead and just write up what it is.
So this is what it is.
Eat the pie ice kind of more standard notation and complex numbers in math.
But in Python they use j.
So this would be PI J.
Each of the pie J plus one equals zero.
So let's go ahead and test this equation out.
So the right hand side it's equal to what we have to use the exponent.
So the exponential function is used is done using the expwy function in the math module.
So what do we want to take the exponent of the exponential of what we want.
I pi.
So we want to see math or math to pi doesn't matter.
Times 1 j.
Right.
We want to make it into a pure imaginary pure imaginary number.
That's one way of doing it.
Alternatively if you want.
You could just say complex zero comr math the PI.
That would also work the same way.
We have zero plus I pi right essentially.
So we can do it that way as well.
And then plus 1 and let's see what we get so let's go ahead and print right hand side and as you can
see we don't exactly have zero.
So it kind of spoils the nicety of this equation but it's very close to zero.
It's not exactly zero but it as you can see it you know tend to the negative 16 over here.
Right.
Now we can therefore try and see well is it close enough to zero.
Just the same way we did with floats and we're going to use that is cost function.
Now we can't use that is cost function.
That's in the math module.
But there is one available Fortunately for us in the math module so we can go ahead and say see math
is close and we can take right hand side which we just calculated and zero.
And if we do that we're going to get false.
Why.
Why are we getting false.
It's really close.
Right.
This number here is really close to zero.
Well if you remember our discussion on floats that's precisely the problem right.
This is using a default relative an absolute tolerance right.
If we look at help on sci math that is closest you'll see that it has this relative an absolute tolerance
concept as well.
And by default the absolute tolerance is zero.
And the relative tolerance is 10 to the negative nine.
And remember that we had discussed that before.
But if you are comparing numbers that are very close to zero then the relative tolerance really doesn't
work anymore and you have to then fall back to an absolute tolerance.
So the moral of the story is the same as we're flawed.
We have to make sure that we specify absolute tolerances as well.
So let's go ahead and do that and we'll leave the relative tolerance as is put will override and provide
a specific value for the absolute tolerance that will not be zero.
Let's say $0.00 or one for example.
And now when we do that we get finally that yes the right hand side is close enough according to this
tolerance to zero.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.